Subscribe, like and share.
Today's series exists in thanks to the support of its viewers.
If you want to be one of them, find your way in Patreon,
YouTube, PayPal and Stripe.
And we are grateful to our community.
In April, 38 years ago, an accident occurred in the nuclear power plant in Chernobyl.
It has been identified as the heaviest in the history of nuclear power.
But the problem is not only that.
The communist government of Bulgaria hides the information about the incident.
While the people on the streets are protesting,
people are eating with a bright light on the salad.
The radioactive cloud is over Bulgaria.
The communist nomenclature drinks mineral water and eats tested food.
Who will change the measures against radiation?
We will talk to Professor Dmitar Vatsov from NoBulgarian University.
He is the author of the research on the archaeology of Moral Debilism.
Hello, Professor Vatsov.
Hello.
Let's start chronologically.
This event is happening.
Mira is even doing a quick research in the library.
A preview of the seal.
How is this event reflected?
And since we are separating from it,
it is good to start chronologically.
How does it start and how do we understand in Bulgaria that such an accident happened?
For the accident in Chernobyl itself,
we understand from the workers' office,
if the first publication of April 28th is not wrong,
in which they say that the accident happened,
and they do not mention anything about any risks that the Bulgarian country faces.
In the next few days,
in two days,
the Atomic Energy Committee publishes again,
through the BTA and the workers' office,
a short message with which it explains that there is no danger to the population,
and so on until May 6th.
So, in fact, the government is hiding,
even though it knows perfectly well what is happening.
They are warned by the Soviet ambassador
about the testimony of the protection of Todor Zhivkov
a few days before the radioactive rain in Bulgaria,
that is, at the end of April itself.
The measurements of the radiation in the country
will begin on April 30th.
From May 1st and 2nd,
measures are taken,
full measures, full quarantine,
on food, water, nomenclature.
The nomenclature must be for the parties,
that is, the CKA of the BKP,
with the secretary and the Politburo,
and those positions in the country, including the government,
which are their preconditions.
These people are fully taken care of.
Even from the first days of the coming of the radiation,
the radiation comes here on May 1st and 2nd.
Because this is not a cloud that is evenly spreading everywhere,
it is overflowing with rain during this period,
between the first and the second,
and then the situation in Bulgaria becomes very difficult.
I am sure that there are three conditions
in Bulgaria at that time,
something like the state of Platonov.
From above are the tsars,
from below are the guards, as a second condition,
and from below are the peasants and the beggars.
From above is the nomenclature.
From below, with the words of the guards,
one of the soldiers, who were better protected,
and we will talk specifically about this,
from Kolko, the other population,
and Dubitaka, from which Obol was fed.
Dubitaka, from which Obol was fed,
in their steppes, they had independent steppes,
for the ecological food of the nomenclature,
Dubitaka drank deep-rooted water.
Water is one of the most important criteria.
The nomenclature drank mineral water
and drank deep-rooted water,
so that it was not infected.
Dubitaka, from the nomenclature,
drank deep-rooted water,
and the whole population drank water from sparks
The animals for Obol, for the special ones,
are placed at a higher level
compared to the population.
With the Bulgarians, yes.
The animals that give the milk and the meat
for the nomenclature are of the middle class,
they are of the higher class than the Bulgarian population.
Ten times less are the soldiers fed
thanks to the fact that their meat was sour.
Simply.
And thanks to the fact that the vegetables were washed.
On the other hand, however,
this is one of the shocking results of these measurements,
it turns out that one in ten years
is a very severe infection.
When they check why this happens,
it turns out that this is usually a cook,
the one who washes the products.
So, the difference is significant
between the amount of radiation
that the ordinary people and the soldiers
drank.
We can also say that there is a difference
in the amount of radiation that the research
of the people who were exposed to work
in the open were collected.
This is the case with the village-stopansky brigades,
the whole village-stopansky cycle,
probably such are the minors
who work in open quarries,
but there is no research for this.
There is research to calculate
the very high levels of radiation
of the brigades who worked in the pink valley.
The pink valley in May is one of the most severe
infections in Bulgaria.
There is a comparison between the people
from the pink valley who participated
in the pick-up.
They are both local and brigades
who were exposed there,
and people from Sofia.
Again, there are several times the difference
in the amount of radiation between those
who worked in the field and those who
worked in the field.
In Bulgaria alone we have a second
radiation peak.
In April-May-June 1987
the food in Bulgaria reaches the levels
of radiation higher than those
who were in May in 1986.
This second radiation peak is called
Bulgarian Chernobyl.
He is responsible for the fact
that, even though he was warned
many times by the same scientists,
the authorities are trying to use
in the winter of 1986 against 1987
the food for animals in May.
From here the milk and the meat
raise a lot of radioactivity.
It is possible to buy food from outside
but it is not possible.
According to their calculations,
about 30% of the Bulgarian population
comes from the consumption of radioactive
meat and milk a year after the accident.
That is, this is all intentional, all
conscious, but the leadership of the
Communist Party in Bulgaria then
decides to save money and not buy new
food.
That is, to save money with radioactive
meat, through animals and milk.
Exactly.
When you read the documents that
have been dealt with in the last few years
according to the Bulgarian Chernobyl
it is seen that the main motivation
of the authorities is not to buy food
because 450,000 children were at sea
in May, June, July 1986.
At the camp.
365,000 brigadiers were killed
in the summer.
Almost 800,000 young people
were subjected to heavy radiation.
This is something when you see
it has not been reported anywhere,
but it is seen that the basic
argument for this is that there is no
economic damage. First, there is no one to
collect the harvest, and for the children's camps
there is a special fear that they will lose
the aliens of the sea from the hard waves
if it is heard that there is radiation
on the sea shores.
In your reading, I think that where you
read the document, it is mentioned
that this is one of the reasons
that it is not reported to the people
so as not to be heard and to destroy
the summer season. This is officially given
as evidence by one of the authorities
for tourism.
Yes, then the head of the Bulgarian
Association for Tourism Yodnik
has decided to go out in peace
so as not to be lost
as tourists.
Although there are a few communities
that say something to the population
to be protected in May 1986,
these communities usually end up
with the fact that the Black Sea is completely
clean and safe. At the same time,
there have been tests of sand in Evsinograd
from the beach of Bongalo, I think it was called.
This is the beach of the authorities.
And special disinfectant measures
of sand have been carried out there.
That is, you claim that the whole Black Sea
is clean, but you clean your beach.
In the documents that you have seen
from these meetings and protocols of the Central Committee,
what do you think is the genocidal
thing in relation to the people,
that they kill people in practice,
consciously, especially children,
young people and young people who
subconsciously blame them outside
in conditions in which they are unlikely to be?
One of the most impressive things,
I call it moral debilitation,
is that they do what they have to do,
they do it for themselves, they are completely rational
and at the same time refuse to do it for others
and do not seem to have a moral problem,
some kind of conscience.
In these documents I can not find
a point of excuse or regret.
There is a gap of about two weeks
in which half of the authorities admit
In fact, in this first interview of Shinderov,
which was ordered by Grigor Stoichkov,
this is proven, that is, it is possible
to get out of his rule together with Ivan Pandev,
the head of the then Nuclear Energy Committee.
Ivan Pandev, so to speak,
shamelessly lies that there is nothing,
Shinderov, however, with an endless sedative Tom,
manages to make it clear that it is good
that the children do not run in the rain
and it is good to wash more often.
These are the measures that recommend,
so with half of Shinderov in this TV interview,
to calm down the audience totally.
From May 7 to May 24,
when it turns out that there is nothing
and everything is over,
and there are several statements
in which it is mentioned that there should be
such elementary hygiene measures.
This is a period of some kind of opening
of information to the population,
but it is extremely minimal.
How did these messages pass on TV
or somewhere in the news?
On May 7, Shinderov's interview is on television,
in the only then Bulgarian television.
And on May 24, the message
in exchange for the measures was published
by the BTA and printed on all newspapers
and cited on television.
We have a very interesting picture on the wall.
Colleagues took out Mara Maleeva and Todor Zhivkov
on a banquet.
She is no longer alive, I think,
Mara Maleeva.
She was born in 1986.
Mrs. Maleeva.
The picture is illustrative.
Yes, but it shows
the trapeze of power.
The evidence shows
that in the residence
in Boyana,
not only the food was
thoroughly checked.
UBO was the only organization
that under the Institute
for Ranginology and Radiobiology
has a dosimeter, a spectrometer
that allows to check
every product on the spot.
What is UBO?
Security and Food Administration?
Security, from the secret police.
This is one of them,
which is responsible for the protection
of the party and state leaders.
And the second time, however,
it was responsible for their health
and for their luxury.
UBO was responsible for the food
of the party leaders.
They had a chemical laboratory
for chemical analysis,
a radio laboratory for radiation analysis
with temporary equipment.
This is an organization
that acts independently.
Its head was General Kashev,
who later, in 1986,
committed suicide
on May 1-2,
in order to control
the food and living conditions
of the higher party of the minority.
Not everyone has received
such care from UBO.
According to the stories of
Alexander Vezenkov,
there are about 9,000 of them
and only about 500-600 of them
are responsible for the care of UBO.
For the food of the party?
Yes, for the food of the party,
which they have at home.
They should not only go
to the special restaurants of UBO.
It is unimaginable,
the delivery to the house.
Many young people
cannot imagine
that you cannot order food outside.
They cannot imagine
what the hotels look like at the moment.
We have some photos
from the publications.
It is something unheard of
for the whole of Europe
and the whole world.
In the Bulgarian newspapers
there are reports
about the shops
that will be opened on holidays.
There are also photos
when the sports festival will take place.
In 1927-1928
there is a small report
on the 27th of April
about the problems
with Libya, Managua and the village.
We are very worried
about what is happening to the people there.
There is nothing for Chernobyl on the front page.
This is a period that is very difficult
to be understood by people who have not lived it.
This is the case for most Bulgarians
who have not lived it.
I remember
the late Professor Ivai Luzhnepolski.
I had the chance to tell him
that he was in Cannes
at the Cannes Film Festival.
He asked his wife
to bring him the milk
from the village.
Why?
Because he said that in the restaurants
in France, one village
and one village came with a dosimeter
to show that it was not infected.
And here nobody knew.
Nobody knew, but he said strongly.
I will go back to what Oboe did.
There are total absurdities
that people in Sofia
walk on the streets in Vrana,
which is the capital of Oboe.
Local workers
are ordered to dig
and take off the upper layer
of the finger of the kukushkarnik
so that the cats can walk on clean ground
on an uninfected radioactive ground.
Again, in Vrana
the grass, which
was sown in the beginning of May,
is sown in Vrana.
Instead of being sown
because it is radioactive,
it is sold to the Serdika
livestock unit.
That is, it goes to feed the animals
Oboe for the nomenclature
buys a huge amount of
powder milk,
which they refuse to drink
because they rot,
but it stays with them for two months,
so that in fact the powder milk
does not reach the children's hospitals
and in the trade network there is
no production of the kukushkarnik
on a general basis.
After that, Oboe returns it,
but it was simply purified
temporarily just in case.
While others, while the people
and the children, especially in the children's gardens,
drink radioactive milk.
Such radioactive milk is released
in the spring of 1987
and there is not enough evidence.
They know that there is radiation,
because if the information flows,
they try to release information
and to take some measures,
they try through the so-called
circular national councils.
They were informed about what measures
they take, and they are very
striking, to control
the food for the children,
the milk and the meat,
how they control it.
Almost no production is released,
but it is mixed.
The meat is ground and it is mixed
very radioactive, with less radioactive
water.
But it is mixed.
We mix different types of milk
from different villages, which are
made in a large milk factory.
Is this documented?
Yes, it is.
How is the socialist language formulated?
These are instructions to the leaders
about the production of the milk,
the Bulgarian fruit for vegetables,
and so on.
But this is already a moment when
they know about the accidents and write
why these jokes are made.
How do you explain this?
Do you mix the milk from Sliven
with the milk from Blagoevgrad?
Yes.
The workers don't know.
They are probably suffering
because the radiation is released
in the cistern,
and the milk is mixed with the milk.
The milk is mixed with the milk
in the cistern,
and the milk is mixed with the milk.
The milk is mixed with the milk
because the radiation is released
in the cistern, in the machines, in the air.
But such research has not been done.
At least I have not come across such research.
And are the researches done,
in the end, how have they affected
the health of the population
for the next 10, 15, 20 years?
This medical expertise
allows us to make
probability calculations
for how many cancer diseases
will be due to the treatment,
how much cancer will be
due to the visible infection of J-131,
what malformations can be expected
during pregnancy,
and so on.
First of all,
the connection between the disease
and the radiation is not proven
to be the cause of the connection.
We cannot say that this person has cancer
thanks to radiation,
we do not know what cancer is caused by.
Therefore, the influence of radiation
can be expected
when this factor enters
among the factors that form the conditions
for cancer diseases.
And according to these calculations
of the medical expertise
from the beginning of the 90s,
from 50-60 to a few hundred,
500-600 people,
according to the study conducted
by the future government.
There is a lot of data,
but I do not know if anyone is serious
to gather them all together,
I hope we can do this
with collective effort to do it,
and to make a precise overall statistic
for how much radiation can be seen
in these diseases.
An American colleague
who is doing research on life expectancy
in Eastern Europe,
published a book in which something very strange is seen.
In the whole of Eastern Europe,
the so-called life expectancy is expected,
because it is again a statistical quantity.
It falls sharply after 1989,
many factors influence
and this is a common moment for Eastern Europe.
In Bulgaria it fell from 1987,
two years earlier.
What is the explanation for this?
Maybe one of the explanations is Chernobyl.
Today we thank our community.